Now, you're probably thinking I'm just pulling things out of thin air, but there is a combination
of the proxy and composite design patterns that I want to show you, and this is a composite proxy which
allows you to implement a pattern or a construct which is quite often called an array of structures,
structures of array paradox.
So let me first of all, explain why this exists.
And it's particularly something that's present in game development, but it will also be relevant to
anyone who is processing any kind of large volumes of structured data.
So let's consider the game development example.
Let's suppose you have a game and the game has a large number of creatures which participate in the
game.
So each creature might have certain traits, like, for example, they might have an age.
So I would have that as a bite.
And they might also have some sort of position on the game map.
So they might have X and Y coordinates, for example, and maybe they have something else.
Now, this data structure, this class, as you can see, I'm using a bind here.
So that would be a single byte and this would be typically four bytes.
It's a somewhat uneven structure.
We don't really know exactly how it's going to be stored.
Maybe what comes after the byte will be padded so that it fits into the what size of the CPU, who knows?
So we have this creature.
Let's suppose that we have, let's say, 100 creatures participating in the game.
So you might do something like the following.
You might have an array of creatures equals new creature 100.
Now, obviously, you would initialize each of the creatures.
I'm going to sort of skip that part.
But then what you might want to do is you might want to take, for example, every single creature and
increase their X coordinates.
So move them all to the right by one cell or whatever.
So you'd write something on the following for each Vassy and creatures and you would say C dot X plus
plus.
This code looks very innocent.
It looks very well.
It's correct code.
It will in fact work.
But the problem with this is that this approach is not memory efficient.
Modern CPU's really like data to be sort of next to one another.
They really like data to be in a predictable sequence so that, you know, how many bytes to move from
one location to another.
Not obviously in this particular case, the compiler and the CPU, they will collectively figure out
how to access the X coordinate of each of the creatures.
But if you think about the memory layout, if you think about the way these creatures are laid out without
all the dot net trappings and somewhat so you have the layout is like this, you have age X, Y, and
then the other creature, age X Y and then age X Y.
So essentially when it comes to actually changing the X coordinate, it has to go here and then it has
to jump to here and then it has to jump to here.
Well, guess what?
The CPU would be much more efficient if you were to change the way things are laid out so that first
of all, you have an array with all the H values and then you have an array with all the X values and
then you have an array with all the Y values, because then if you were to change all the access, you
would just go through this part of the array.
You would go nicely from one cell to another and it would be much faster in on that modern CPU.
So the question is, how can we actually implement this?
How can we get this to perform better on modern hardware without really changing anything in terms of,
you know, fundamentally reworking the creative class?
Well, the only way you can do this is if you actually implement what I would call a composite proxy
or you would, in other words, implement a collection of creatures where the internal storage is completely
different, but the API is more or less the same because the only kind of API that we really want in
this case is we want to be able to enumerate something.
So we want something that's innumerable and that stores the creature data but stores it in a very kind
of bunched up order.
So first of all, you have all the edges, then you have all the Xs, then you have all the whys.
So let's try to build such a class so you would have a class called creatures.
So in the class you would have the size.
So you specify how many elements there are.
So I would have preferred read-only int size like this.
And this is something you would actually provide in the constructor, but in addition you would actually
store the age as the X's and the whys.
And once again we can use arrays to store all of this data.
So here I can have private byte array for age and I can have a private integer arrays for X and Y and
then what I can do is I can initialize it here in the constructor so I can say that age is going to
be a new Vitara with the particular size and the same goes for the Xs and the Ys.
So X equals new injury of size and let's just duplicate this and do the same for Y.
So this is how you would allocate the data and now you notice that the data is nicely aligned, so to
speak, in the sense that, first of all, you have all the ages and then you have all the X's and then
you have all the whys.
But the question is, how can we actually access any element of this array and actually get an API,
which looks like a creature?
Now, I'm not even going to bother extracting the interface from creature.
I'm just going to give you an identical interface, which is what the proxy power is all about.
So you would have something like a creature proxy, creature proxy.
Now, know this, I'm using a struct here because it's not actually going to store any any significant
values.
The only thing that we need to store is the index of the creature to access and a reference to the overall
set of creatures.
So let me show you how this will work.
We're going to start by building a constructor.
So the constructor is going to take two things.
It's going to take a reference to all the creatures and then is going to take a reference to the index
of the creature we're actually interested in.
And so what I'm going to do is I'm actually going to have fields for both of these.
So let's initialize creatures, let's initialize the index as well.
And then what we really want to be able to do is to give out a reference which actually refers to a
certain age of a particular creature or their X or Y coordinates.
Here is the interesting thing.
Here is how you would define it.
You would say public riffe byte age and here you return reath creatures dot age at a particular index.
So what's going on here?
Well, whenever somebody accesses this proxy, they can start working with things like age as well as
the X and Y coordinates as well.
Let me actually just drop these down here below so you have the age, the X and the Y, but all of these
really are is they are references into the arrays that we have defined up here.
So they're not real.
They're not just ordinary fields of this particular struct.
Instead, this struct is just a placeholder is just something that allows you to access the particular
element.
All that's changeable in the struct is the index.
So the index tells you where exactly you're looking into.
Now, theoretically, you could expose the index as public so that people can modify it, but I'm just
going to keep it here as private.
So another question is, well, how can we how can we have a for each on creatures?
That's not exactly difficult.
We don't even need to explicitly implement get the numerator.
We just need to write it.
What I mean is we don't need to implement numerable of things or anything.
I can just say public I enumerator.
Creature proxy, so here in notice, I'm going to be giving out these proxies as opposed to actual creatures.
And so I Annamarie to create your proxy, get enumerator.
OK, and here is what we do.
So for every single position, from zero to size, we return a new creature proxy.
So here I'm going to say four and pause equals zero.
Pause less than the size plus plus pause.
What we're going to do is we're going to return or yield, return, not rather yield return a new creature
proxy where this gets passed into the actual proxy and the index has pause.
OK, so what what we can do with this set up is we can use almost the same API is up here, but get
all the performance benefits.
So essentially you'll say something like var creatures too.
And instead of using an array you will say new creatures passing in the value of 100.
So here you would create a hundred creatures.
And obviously if you look at the actual constructor here for creatures, we are automatically allocating
all the memory of those creatures actually required.
So there is no need to then go through every single one of them and call a constructor on it like we
would here, because this is just a placeholder for 100 nulls, basically.
So here, once you have crèches, two, you can say for each of our see in creatures two, and here
you would say C dot X plus plus.
So this is how you would actually modify every single one of the creatures.
But this time round is completely different.
We can actually replace this far by specifying the time explicitly.
And you can see that the time here is crèches, dot creature proxy.
So we're essentially modifying something on a proxy.
So when you say Searoad X plus plus what you're really getting, when you're saying, see that X is
you're referencing into creatures dot, dot, X at a particular index.
So add the index that you've specified for that particular creature.
You're going into it, you're getting that reference and then using that reference to increment that
particular value.
So the take away from this example, and it's sufficiently complicated example, is that sometimes you
build proxies for purposes of performance improvements.
So in this case, we want all the data related to a particular well, all the data of a particular data
type, in actual fact, being put together in an array of essentially a contiguous chunk of memory that's
easier and more efficient to traverse and having to jump between the elements.
So we put this all together and we now are able to to go through this.
So just to explain you the terminology behind all of this.
So this thing is essentially an array of structures, a process.
And what we've done here is we've made a structure of arrays.
And what we talk about is we talk about this ÁGÚST SLA duality.
So we talk about the way that you can represent things one way or another.
If you look at programming languages such as J, for example, that's where this is implemented implicitly
in the language you can just say this is the struct is going to be an S struct and then it gets automatically
converted.
We don't have that kind of automation here in C Sharp, but we are able to build proxies which do pretty
much the same thing.